---
title: "Седмица 214"
date: 2025-11-30
---

Sometimes, you get to where you need to be early.<br>
So, you sit down to wait.<br>
But you’re fidgety,<br>
And sometimes, while you move around,<br> 
Out of the corner of your eye,<br> 
In the middle of Amsterdam,<br> 
(well, not really but you see my point),<br> 
hiding in plain sight, waiting for you to miss them,<br> 
you see a patch of wild strawberries.<br> 
And it’s not like you haven’t seen wild strawberries before.<br> 
But it is far more interesting when they are out of place. <br>

-----

Let me tell you about my German grandma. She is actually neither German, nor my grandma, but none of this really ever mattered. 

It is July in Bavaria, hot, filled with uptight ladies devoid of a sense of humour not because they’ve lost it, but because they’ve never had it, the conservative descendants of the *noblesse* and convertibles with their roofs down. <br>
My not-grandma and I, are up to nothing but debauchery. <br>
We have lunch, the only way you can have lunch. That is, my not-grandma is wearing a sort of flowing robe, a not-Hawaiian muumuu if you will, whereas I have opted for some cotton pyjama shorts and we are both sat atop the white leather chairs around the glass table. We are having Chinese takeout, but not from the boxes, because we have been raised right and white wine from crystal glasses. 
After lunch, it’s siesta time, either outside on the balcony sunbeds or inside on the versace blanket covered armchair. We arise, slightly lethargic, ready for a coffee and a piece of cake, we talk and discuss and confess and annoy each other and make each other laugh, as always forgetting how big our age difference is, but never that it’s exactly 69 years, because that is just too funny! And before you know it’s dinner time. In other words, it’s time to have more wine and perhaps, if we are feeling bold, some appetizers to go with that. 
After dinner, we usually watch some TV (yes, in Deutsch). Either a documentary, or a relaxing crime series. Towards the middle, we both doze off and wake up right before the end. 
The best part is that the next day we get to do it all over again. 

I really see why you would think that I am exaggerating. And you’d be right, I am a bit, but you’d never guess what it is that I am exaggerating. 




<script src="https://utteranc.es/client.js"
        repo="wiseblondie/brum-thoughts-chain"
        issue-term="pathname"
        theme="github-light"
        crossorigin="anonymous"
        async>
</script>
