---
title: "Седмица 3012"
date: 2025-12-18
---
For a long time, I thought that education was the answer to most problems. This stemmed in large part from the way I was raised, but also because educating yourself (and, very importantly, not waiting to be educated) seemed to be the only action that actually led to an improvement in how people navigated society, the world and their immediate surroundings. 
People who are less ignorant, are less angry. This seems to be the case, because when you are informed, you start feeling less like a victim (of circumstances). In turn this makes you feel less powerless and therefore less angry. Anger, hatred, disdain and aggression have never been beneficial to, and for, anyone. 
However, here comes the part that used to stump me, at least until this past Sunday.  You can't force education on people, because that would be propaganda. I just couldn't figure out how to make the practice of educating yourself more widespread. Additionally, I have the feeling that the urgency to do that has increased in recent years due to the rhetoric of associating education with a particular socio-economic class becoming a very popular argument in political discourse. Granted, this is not completely unfounded, but in political discourse it is used only to create division amongst the electoral body. 
All of this leads to this past Sunday's realization: the best way to combat fear is by nurturing curiosity. 
We are afraid of the unknown, and although from an evolutionary perspective this is incredibly useful, nowadays it mostly leads to uncontrolled prejudice and harm motivated by defensiveness. It is not unreasonable to be afraid of men when walking alone at night, since men are considerably more violent than women and others. This is a fact.  However, it would be unreasonable to be afraid of all men all the time. That is why we should strive to become aware of our prejudices. Only when we identify them, can we actually regulate them. The best way to get rid of prejudice is by exposing ourselves to the other and the different. Curiosity is what pushes us to do that. Curiosity is what pushed and (still) pushes people to cross oceans, explore Antarctica, grow plants, write books, make paintings, go to the moon, study fundamental mathematics, combine two substances in a beaker, identify different species of birds, stick a fork in a plug, dye our hair, take pictures... Curiosity is a "what if" catalyser. Curiosity is the antonym of conventionalism and the status quo. It is disruptive by nature and because of that it is often frowned upon and viewed as childish, unproductive and inconvenient. Nurturing curiosity is what is going to make the practice of educating yourself widespread. Nurturing curiosity is the best way to fight fear. 

So dear friends, I wish you jolly holidays and may your upcoming year be filled with discoveries, thrilling encounters and captivating projects!

P.S: This past Sunday, I watched "My octopus friend". It is really really good! It is so good because it is an animal documentary not made by a biologist. Previous to making it, the person behind it had no interest in cephalopods. Curiosity is what made it all happen. All the credit for this realization goes to “My octopus friend”.






<script src="https://utteranc.es/client.js"
        repo="wiseblondie/brum-thoughts-chain"
        issue-term="pathname"
        theme="github-light"
        crossorigin="anonymous"
        async>
</script>
