---
title: "A teapot of tea a day keeps the doctor away"
date: 2025-05-14
---
I wrote the following for a university column contest. I did not win. Not even top five. I am also apparently a poor loser...

---

I have exam day shirts. Worse, I have exam day socks. As soon as I wake up, I make tea — usually green, but lately it's been a London Earl Grey. Each day, I alternate between two mugs. If I find a dish I like, I'll usually have it on repeat for a few weeks. I've written my notes religiously on paper with pen since high school. I read on the toilet — I've been doing it since, well, since I could read. I cross my fingers when ambulances go by. I talk to my stuffed animals as if they were people. I make a wish when I look at the clock and the hour and minute numbers are the same. I've been brushing my teeth with a 3-minute kids’ hourglass for at least the past six years. Even numbers are preferred.

Rituals. Obsessions. Potato-potahto. Repetitive — that's what matters. Patterns matter. Fractals on ferns, metamerism in worms and vertebrae, stripes on women's skin. In a lot of ways, my habits are healthy. After all, I’m not smoking. Green tea is hardly going to harm me.

Or so I thought. Until I wanted — no, scratch that — until I needed everything around me to be a certain way. To be controlling is exhausting. So naturally, there was only one thing left for me to do: learn how to make a mess and not be bothered.

So that’s what I've been doing for the past few years. And now, I can proudly say that... my newest ritual is — you guessed it — making messes.

<script src="https://utteranc.es/client.js"
        repo="wiseblondie/brum-thoughts-chain"
        issue-term="pathname"
        theme="github-light"
        crossorigin="anonymous"
        async>
</script>
